So let's do a quick recap of
where we are on this site, right.
So what we've done to date is
we've made ourselves a website
that will show us a list of books
to show us a list of all authors.
And let us see individual pages for
those the way that we were
able to create that was by customizing
the way that Gatsby creates pages and
the way that it pulls in data.
So we are pulling in some JSON data.
This could be data from anywhere we could
pull it in from third party API's or
whatever we needed.
And once we have that, we are defining
some relationships between that data.
And then we're creating data nodes for
each one,
which puts it into
Gatsby's graph qL layer.
Then using that data actually,
before we use the data,
we get down to this create resolvers here,
where we're able to extend the data with
custom resolvers that give us new fields.
So, we created a biol ink,
which gives us the ability to link out and
see a place to purchase.
And we also created a cover,
which is a remote image.
So we look up the book
in the Open Library API.
We then get a link to
the book's cover image, and
have Gatsby pull that in
as a remote file node.
And by configuring Gatsby
config with image plugins,
we're able to get an optimized image for
each book cover.
So we got quite a ways here.
But as you may have noticed, this is
not the most visually appealing site,
we've pretty much ignored
the visuals of this site entirely.
And what I wanna do is just
kind of dig into how we can
make this more visually appealing.
But in a way that if I wanted to build
more sites like this in the future,
I could reuse that content.
And so to do that, we're gonna introduce
what's known as Gatsby themes.
So under the hood,
a Gatsby theme is almost a Gatsby plugin.
You install it the same way we're
gonna put it into the plugins array,
just like we would any other plug in.
But the difference is a Gatsby
theme has a few special properties.
One, it can extend our Gatsby config, so
we can install our own plugins that way.
And, we'll show you how that
works here in a minute.
You can provide components
that will wrap things,
which is what we're gonna do
with this particular theme.
You can provide shared styles,
you can do a whole lot of kind of
foundational work that makes building
multiple web sites even easier if
they're all kind of in the same vein.
So this is a really, really powerful
approach if you are an agency developer.
If you work with clients, and
you want to have the ability for
a lot of different websites to start
with the same general boilerplate.
Whether that is, if you're building
a front end that's a little more advanced,
maybe you need to wrap
everything in context providers.
Maybe you've got some shared hooks that
you use in almost every site that make
your life a little bit easier.
Or maybe you're using tailwind,
and you've got a base config,
any of those sorts of things can
be wrapped up into a Gatsby theme.
And then installed onto a site so
that you start at that point,
without having to build your own
starter that you can then maintain.
The benefit of this is that if I use a
starter, I'm getting a copy of that site,
and all of its config and all of its
components and everything that's in it.
And if I make changes, it's now
completely diverged from the starter.
If improvements get made to the starter, I
have to manually port those into my code,
which is, to be honest,
probably never gonna happen.
I've tried this a few times.
Never in my history as a developer,
unless I was under duress,
have I voluntarily gone and
gotten changes from upstream.
And lovingly ported them into my code,
it's usually not possible because
your code diverges to match.
With a theme, though,
a theme is an NPM package.
It's separate from your site.
So if a theme gets updated upstream,
I can update the version of my theme.
And assuming the authors didn't
make any breaking changes,
I just automatically
get those improvements.
It's just like using Gatsby or
just like using, any other NPM package.
I do NPM install my theme at latest and
boom, I got the changes.
So this is a great way
to keep things in sync.
A really good example of this
in practice is if you look
at the Apollo graph qL doc's
these are set up as themes.
So if you look at the docs,
they have all of these different tools.
And so each of these has its
Doc's in a different place.
And they're able to keep
all of the common stuff,
the sidebar styling, the shared header,
the search functionality.
All that lives in shared repos, but
if we go and actually edit this.
We can see that this is
like the Apollo docs.
And then if I go to let's go to react,
and I go to edit the React docs.
This is in a different repo, so
each of these is its own kind of thing.
They're separately maintained, but
they all have this really unified feel.
And that's because Trevor blades, who's
the developer who built this did a really
great job of setting up a series
of shareable Gatsby themes.
So this is a really powerful approach
that you can take and use in your code.
So let's start that, right?
So the reason that we set up a mono
repo is to make this as easy as possible
to get started.
So I'm gonna create two
new files in a new folder.
So our theme, I want it to be
called Gatsby theme shared now.
Now I could put this in a slash packages
folder or a slash themes folder,
whatever, but no benefit in over
nesting here, so I'm not gonna bother.
So I'm going to create a Gatsby config.
And I'm also going to
create a package JSON.
And so the Gatsby config,
all we need to start, is nothing.
We're just gonna export an empty object.
And the packagejson we're going to set
a few basic details we want to know.
The name and we're gonna call
it Gatsby theme, shared nav.
Again, we're in a mono repo which means
that whatever the folder name is,
if this is what yarn workspaces are gonna
use when we wanna start the theme or
install the theme.
So if these don't match,
that can be kinda confusing.
So I would just say, if you don't wanna
call it Gatsby theme shared now that's
fine, but, call the folder and
the package the same thing.
And you gonna get real confused.
Then we're gonna set a version,
we're not gonna publish this today.
So the version is more just to
keep NPM from yelling at us, and
then we're gonna set a main,
and this is important.
Main will default to index.JS,
but the main field is what node and
NPM and yarn use.
To determine whether a package is valid,
so if you put in index js and
there's no index js in here.
Your theme will throw errors,
it'll say it's incorrectly configured or
no main export or something like that.
So you can and a common practice
is created an index dot js and
just it's a no op just put in
a comment that's nothing to see here.
And that's fine because then
your main can be index.js.
Or you can just change
what this main field is.
And the last thing we're gonna do
is we're gonna set a license, and
we'll call it MIT.
And so the reason that we set these fields
is to register this as a package, and to
prevent getting complaints like we don't
wanna notice that our packages on license.
Or notice that our version is invalid or
something like that,
those can all cause problems and
just generally they cause headaches.
So now that we've done that,
we can tell yarn to track this.
So I'm gonna come in here, and
I'm gonna to say Gatsby theme, shared nav,
because now I wanna track this folder.
And if I come out here, and
I look at what's in our yarn workspaces,
which you can do by doing
yarn works spaces info,
It's gonna show me two workspaces,
one a site.
Okay, that makes sense, and
then Gatsby theme shared nav
here's its location and perfect.
That's what we want, so
now that I've got that,
I'm going to add Gatsby to our theme.
So yarn workspace, Gatsby.
Oops, Gatsby theme.
Shared nav, and
you wanna add this as a peer dependency,
because we don't want two
copies of Gatsby, but
we do wanna make sure that Gatsby is
installed when you use this theme.
So peer dependency is
a way to make that work.
So the dash capital P is how we do that.
And again, we're using a yarn
workspace theme named ad.
Instead of NPM install or
yarn ad because we want to make sure
that it shows up in this package JSON and
not this package JSON.
And that's how yarn
workspaces handle that.
Okay, so we've installed,
and now we're gonna install
the custom theme into our site.
So, how we do that is we
get into our terminal, and
we're going to say yarn workspace
site add Gatsby theme shared nav.
And to get it to pick up the local theme,
we're gonna say at star,
and I'm using z shell,
which means I have to quote that star.
So at quoted star is how
we're going to do this.
So I hit enter.
And instead of adding the remote theme,
it links our dependencies and
gives us what we want.
And then I'm going to say,
yarn workspaces info again.
And now you can see site then here
are workspace dependencies including
the Gatsby theme, shared nap.
So this is what we wanted.
This is what we were after we have
a site that is now using the theme.
And that theme is local for
our development,
which is gonna make our lives really easy.
So if we do, we can start this right now
but honestly, nothing will happen yet.
Because it's an empty theme,
it's just kind of like there.
So let's not even bother because if
I started it, it would just start,
we wouldn't even see that we installed
the theme, it would just be like okay,
your site started.